---
title: "Global culture and Ethics - midterm"
date: 2020-11-30T19:11:08+08:00
draft: false
image: ""
categories: ["Essays"]
tags: [
  "essays",
]
---

Part 1: Universalism, Homogenization, Binaries and Cultural Difference
     1.Universalism is an assertion of universal principles in human affairs, and a cosmopolitan vision of mankind. It was born in the Enlightenment discourse and thoughts, which included a range of ideas centered on reason and science, and rationality. The Enlightenment ideas also focused on limited monarchy, freedom of speech, equality and individual liberty and freedom, which later inspired worldwide revolutions including both the American and French Revolution.

     2. Declarations of human rights emerged largely from the ideals of the Enlightenment. In July 4, 1776, thirteen American colonies declared themselves as independent sovereign states with integrity and therefore they become no longer under British rule. Founding fathers were inspired by the Enlightenment thoughts. In 1789 Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, the paper explains a list of rights, such as freedom of religion, freedom of speech, freedom of assembly and separation of powers, it was based on natural rights, which are supposed to be valid in all times and places for men. There is a big distinction between Haitian declaration and the other human rights declarations during that time. The Haitian revolution was the first in a modern state to implement human rights universally and unconditionally because it goes beyond the selective emancipation of white adult male property owners. For example, it talked about coming out of slavery and considered everything individuals, not just privileged ones. Unfortunately, Haitian were silenced and isolated from the international arena because western societies feared of the collapsed of slavery system if recognition of black nation. Consequently, Haiti was delegitimized and not recognized as a nation. After WW2, the United Nations adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Right, which includes more inclusive civil and political rights, like the right to life, liberty, free speech and privacy. It also includes economic, social and cultural rights.
     3.However, Universalism has been faced with many criticisms as it is linked to the ideas of homogenization, which treats different people of different cultures in the same way that may only favor some groups while fail to protect the rest of them. For example, In UN’s Declaration of Universal Human Rights, it only focused on individual people’s rights, which only favored the majority of Westerners and did not take marginalized people into consideration. For example, only until 2007, the United Nations adopted the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, who valued collective rights more rather than individual rights. As opposed to Modernism and universalism, which highlights Enlightenment ideas, Postmodernism plays a role of demonstrating ambiguity, uncertainty and showing that there is no absolute truth in the world. It is based on the very reality of culture difference, recognition of individual different experiences and it also supports moral relativism.
4. The contradictions in Universalism are revealed through binaries like inclusion and exclusion. Universalism always gives many “exceptions”. For example, in the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, citizens only include white man with properties. Other people like Jews, Blacks, Women Immigrants, Minorities, and Indigenous groups were excluded. There is another core contradiction happening in America, who became independent from Britain. America used to feel enslaved by monarchy and wanted freedom and men created equal. However, at the same time, it founded under system of slavery and flourished under this system. Since the experience of slavery is not considered as human being, slaves were again excluded from the category of men.
5.  In "globalization and culture", Tomlinson argues that globalization informs the local culture while local cultures informs the global. Globalization and local cultures shape each other mutually. From my point of view, universalism cannot be completely achieved because of distinctions always exist between the global and local, but it can be approached through mutual communications between these two.  

Part 2: Race, Identity, Multiculturalism, Hybridity, Reterritorialization
     1.When Stuart Hall views identity as production, it is as fluid as a theater, which is always about becoming. This theater is always in process of transformation and will never be complete. However, Anzaldua focuses on production of knowledge (eg. literature)when she views identity in terms of production. When Stuart looks at identity as representation, it is constructed through memory, narrative and myth and it can be described as an imagined community, which is a dominant regime of representation. Similarly, Anzaldua views identity as a representation of a monocultural nation, which only exists in fantasy. Ultimately, Stuart looks at identity as positioning, which is no longer fixed. Identity is constantly changing because people have different experiences at different time in life. However, Anzaldua positioned herself in a reality, in which she is a mixed, hybrid mestiza.
     2. Colonialism always led to diaspora and deterritorialization, which results in relocating and mixing different classes of people. Deterritorialization always leads to loss of “natural” relationship between cultural and territories, and it also transforms relationship between places we live and our cultural experiences. As a result, it weakens ties between culture and place and it won’t establish stable local identity. Deterritorialization has the essence of cultural condition of globalization because it goes beyond limits of specific territory. Traditionally, culture is fixed to locality, fixed in particular space. But when think about globalization, it implies that the culture is dislocated from the locality. Later, those people of diaspora become cosmopolitan who have unique identities. For example, a mestiza lives in borderlands between cultures, races, languages, genders, and lives in a situation of in- betweenness, which enable mestiza to bridge and negotiate cultures. Mestiza can also offer new perspectives and may lead to coalition and alliances because of her unique identities.  With this heterogeneous background, Stuart also chooses to embrace his identity openly and looks at it as a fluid thing that constantly changes like a theatre.
     3. Cosmopolitanism is a utopian concept that believes all human beings belong to a single community, based on a shared morality. Also, it sets the preconditions of tolerance and mutual respect in order to achieve real recognition of differences and mutual recognition. There are some pros and cons of multiculturalism for construction of identity in human interaction. Multiculturalism improves people’s abilities to critical thinking and abilities to problem-solving since different people will provide different opinions, knowledge and solutions. People can also learn more about other cultures and religions living in this multicultural environment. Also, multiculturalism will attract international companies and therefore the economy will be boosted in this environment. Education in the multicultural society will emphasize equality and thus develop an attitude against racism and inequality. However, there are also some cons for the multicultural society. First, there are potential conflicts between different religious groups or population since many people focuses on their own advantages. Also, there may be still many prejudices of people belonging to a minority, and this put them in disadvantageous positions in many places like workplace. Ultimately, living in such multicultural society may make people fear of losing their original ethnic identities or lifestyles
     4.  Ali’s article assumes that there is a huge gap between the West and Islam since Islam preserves premodern values and traditions, and have stagnated mental world, and even retardation of development. Her values are radical since she believes that tolerance here only means giving time to immigrants who are coming to grips with modern values. In other words, tolerance is about giving Muslims time to be assimilated and accept western values. Based on Ali’s view, integration equals to assimilation, and also equals to progress, civilization and the western values.  However, Harris gives a different perspective to look at cultures and identities. In Harris’ article, he argues that identity and culture are achieved processes deriving from a specific interpretation and enforcement located within the field of historically constituted social relations. The problematic nature of the constituent elements of 'multiculturalism' would reveal the whole concept questionable once we give up the idea of cultures as a package and recognize that even within cultural boundaries communication is essentially about difference and requires translation. Through examining the differences within the cultures, Harris gives more tolerance to other cultures.

Part 3: Colonialism, Cold War, Violence, Peaceful Coexistence
     1.  The vision of coexistence means that living in peace with one another despite differences and promoting world view of universalism and pluralism that moves away from the negative understandings of difference. However, colonialism hindered a vision of universalism, human solidarity and the desire for global peaceful co-existence by establishing the system of dominant-subordinate relationship and doctrine of cultural hierarchy and supremacy. Also, under this system, colonizers created exploited and imposed violence and forces on the colonized. Colonizers also used dichotomies to distinguish from the colonized, such as “thesis” and “antithesis”, to associate them with goodness and superiority and associate the colonized with negativity and inferiority.
     2. In order to confront violence, especially during the Cold war, globalization emerged through the rapid increase in the speed, scale, and scope of transnational linkages, driven largely by developments in communications, transportation, and international agreement. Also, during the Cold war, decolonization happened across the world and many former colonies emerged as new countries, which are categorized as the third world, and they became larger markets with more natural resources.
     3.  In the colonial world, as Gunn mentioned in his article, the colonized were taken as the “other” in order to identify the colonizers’ identities through comparisons. The otherness wil be erased only when people strived to fight for rights. Therefore, in Martin Luther King’s "Letter from Birmingham City Jail”, he argues that he and his fellow demonstrations have a duty to fight for justice in 1960s, just as Ignacieff emphasizes that universal human rights should cross both time and space.
     4. setter (colonizer) represents the governing race, coming from elsewhere and never ceases to be the enemy of the natives. Settler believes that he could make history and his work is to “make even dreams of liberty impossible for the native”. In contrast, native (colonized) represents the oppressed race, who is taken as dehumanized native animal. For the native, the most essential value is the land, which is also their dignity. Native’s morality is to silence settler’s defiance, to break his violence and to erase him from the land.
     5. Last month, two black men waited friends in Starbucks in downtown Philadelphia. They had asked to use the restroom but because they had not bought anything, an employee refused the request. They were eventually asked to leave, and when they declined, an employee called the police and they were arrested. This incident reveals prejudices and violence against people of color, even in today’s society.  
