---
title: "Civilization or Distortion"
date: 2020-11-30T19:12:43+08:00
draft: false
image: ""
categories: ["Essays"]
---

####   Civilization or Distortion

     Ideas about civilization, fundamentalism, and modernity have shape the narratives and discourses of the middle East and Indigenous communities. Western perspectives distorted the representations of Indigenous and the Middle East people to justify their civilization and expansion. However, distorted views are still remained after colonization era and are still greatly influencing people’s perceptions toward Islam and indigenous people through binaries. Now it is time to reveal these misconceptions and deconstruct distorted discourse of them. This essay will explore how terms like civilization, modernity are used to favor the West and how distorted narratives, representations and discourses mainly feed on binaries people frequently use, further prioritizing the West, and marginalizing the others (particularly the Middle East and Indigenous communities). The essay will also discover how fundamentalism and anti-globalism emerging as a response to modernity further reinforce former distortions.
     Civilization does not equal to culture. It is defined as an advanced state of human society achieved by type of culture and certain groups of people. Civilization is always associated with populated areas in general as opposed to unpopulated or wilder areas. It is also associated with modern comforts and conveniences, as made possible by science and technology. Civilization throughout the whole colonial history is used to describe the condition which emphasizes the act of process of civilizing, as by bringing out of  savage, uneducated, or unrefined state indigenous people. In this condition, civilization is a justice for colonization and allow imagined narratives toward indigenous people to grow influential and popular. Civilization has been largely empowered and justified by literature discourses. Western civilization can be traced back to Greece and Rome as its origin which has story like Trojan horse to justify the process of civilization itself. Discourse construction has always greatly impact on people’s vision and thoughts because it can be used as reference to justify certain thoughts. Under the power of discourses, myth like Trojan horse gives a sense that western power is a core of civilization, and therefore native people are the periphery of civilization which is the opposite of the West. Waswo arguez that literature discourse as a template shapes world history by justifying for military conquest (23). He points out that literary versions were generated by particular moments of imperialistic expansion so that it legitimize genocide of hunter-gathers, natives indigenous populations (Waswo). His argument is reasonable because literary narratives always inform us the way we perceive the history. A story mold into myth and somehow ultimately become history or science we don’t often question because we saw it as facts. Therefore, it is clear that why we take some of distorted views for granted and why these distorted views impact on our ideas and attitudes toward marginalized people.
     Greatly Influenced by these Eurocentric narratives, representations of indigenous people have been distorted. These misrepresentations of indigenous people include “brutal savage”, “noble savage”, “magic native”, and “ecological noble savage”. When describing indigenous people and their traditional communities, they are always the opposite of modernity. According to these constructed discourse, indigenous people are primitive and stand in the way of development and they impede modernization. Therefore, there is no way to think indigenous people in modern context. Binaries were formed when concluding these contrasting characteristics between two groups. Indigenous communities are always described as collective, communal, human respect of nature. On the other hand, western world share characteristics of individualist, destructiveness, enemy of nature. More Eurocentric binaries include settler versus native/indigenous people, progress versus regress, modern versus primitive, hero versus giants, lawgivers versus savages, etc. Binaries consists of simple and words which conclude bias and stereotypes from literature discourses. Binaries have been used very frequently when describing characteristics of certain things or groups because human mind understands the world in terms of contrast and it provides an easy way to learn things. The creation of binaries allows these imagined narratives to feed on and spread all over the world because people always want to find a short cut to learn things faster. However, an unconscious side effect of this fast-learning method is that using binaries reinforce distorted views and stereotypes toward marginalized groups/communities.
     Like indigenous people, representations and narratives of Middle East communities are also easily distorted. Discourses of both orientalism and fundamentalism provide a western historically constructed view toward Islam. Discourses of orientalism provides a way of seeing imagined, exaggerated and distorted differences between Arab people and “civilized” westerners. This discourse often creates binaries in which Arab culture are characterized as exotic, irrational, strange, different, childlike and times dangerous whereas the westerners are normal, rational, virtuous, mature (Said). Edward W. Said defined orientalism as the acceptance in the West of “the basic distinction between East and West as the starting point for elaborate theories, epics, novels, social descriptions, and political accounts concerning the Orient, its people, customs, ‘mind,’ destiny and so on” (33).
     Fundamentalism is defined as a style of political thought rooted in theology. It has a tendency to reduce religion to its most fundamental tenet and it follows strict adherence to a set of basic principles, which are enduring and unchanging. Since these principles derive directly from God, they cannot be challenged. Therefore, fundamentalism delivers a sense that people’s ideas are fixed in time. However, when putting in a context of modernity, fundamentalism is a thought responding to modernity, which is deemed as threatening to authority of god and focuses on scientific knowledge. Fundamentalism, in contrast, challenges the secular world because it is based on divine revelation and emphasizes conformity and absolute. It also rejects human freedoms and human reasons. Muslims are narrated as fundamentalists, who victimize others and they are believed to have ability to be destructive.
     Islam has been further distorted since the emerge of anti-globalism or anti-modernity, which is largely composed by marginalized groups by globalization. Well-known anti-globalism actions are usually taken by extremists like Bin Laden. After 9/11, Islam has been labeled as terrorism and taken as enemy of civilization or even universal enemy. Prevailing narratives therefore describe Islam as barbaric, stuck in tradition, and anti-modern. While Islam is described as a danger and universal enemy, Western culture is praised by the through narratives which on the other hand represents enlightenment, modern, progressive ideals. Jergensmeyer mentioned that modern and anti-modern binary have its root in modern secular nationalism which is a product of enlightenment’s political values and it is anti-religions in essence (300).
     Similar to other distorted discourse, the representation of Middle East women has always been weak and victimized compared to western feminists. The film “Where Do We Go Now” portrays images of Middle East women differently from the western angle. The representation of those women is really strong in this movie, in which women are free to make choice on their own and are powerful enough to make changes. In terms of religion, dressing the hijab is the women's choice, not victimizing them. From the perspective of family, women undertake roles of defending their homeland and families from violence and wars. Those women want Muslims and Christians in their community live harmoniously and they finally reach their goal. This film is different from usual western angle because shows that Middle East women and western feminists are doing the same thing. This breaks the boundary of people’s common perception of Middle East women. Another reading from Madeleine Bunting also counteracts the misrepresentation of Muslim women’s hijab and their sexuality. Wearing hijab is one of the biggest sources of misunderstanding between western feminists and Muslim women. Bunting says that they do not wish to express their sexuality in public because they believe that its proper place is in the privacy of an intimate relationship (3). This does not mean that veiling in public is a form of repression or shame of the female body. In fact, most Muslim women and scholars agrees that Islam can liberate women spiritually and sexually (Bunting).
     Discourses construct the world we know and shaped our perceptions toward people and things. These imagined narratives usually feed on binaries and then distorted views become reinforced. The creation of binaries divides people into contrasting groups, especially the West and Indigenous and Islam people. Under these distortions, Islam and indigenous people have always been viewed in a derogatory way through western angle. In order to address misconceptions and distortions caused by some discourses, we need deconstruct the way we think about those links. Maybe reducing our uses of binaries in our everyday language could be the first step of deconstructing the distorted discourses and narratives.









Work Cited
Beit-Hallahmi, Benjamin, and Edward W. Said. “Orientalism.” Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion, vol. 19, no. 1, 1980, p. 39.
Bunting, Madeleine. “Can Islam Liberate Women?” 8 Dec 2001:5 print.
Jergensmeyer, Mark. Terror in the Name of God. 4th ed., vol. 320 320, University of California Press; 3rd Edition Edition , 2003.
Waswo, Richard. “The History That Literature Makes.” New Literary History, vol. 19, no. 3, 1988, p. 541.
